# Netlify
> ðŸ‘‹ðŸ¼ **Before you continue:** please read through the [Getting Started](10.getting_started.md) page as it contains important information that can help you avoid common gotchas. It also offers instructions to help you fork the Elk repository and to configure a Cloudflare KV namespace and an API token, which are prerequisites to the section below.
--------------
## Introduction
This section covers the basics of deploying Elk to Netlify. This kind of deployment requires Cloudflare KV for persistent storage. Both companies offer a _Free Tier_ that should suffice for a small/personal instance.

## Importing the Elk repo into Netlify

On the main page of your Netlify dashboard, press the "Import from GitHub" button. Point it to your Elk fork.

On the third page with Site settings, change the "Branch to deploy" to `release` if you wish. Press "Deploy site".

That's one step done! Keep the tab open while we hop over to Cloudflare for a bit.

## Setting the environment variables on Netlify

On your project page, go to "Site settings", and open the "Environment variables" section.

There are 5 environment variables to add.

| Environment variable | What it is |
|---|---|
| NUXT_CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID | This is your Cloudflare Account ID. You can find it in "Workers > Overview" |
| NUXT_CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN | Put your Cloudflare API token here. |
| NUXT_CLOUDFLARE_NAMESPACE_ID | This is your Cloudflare KV Namespace ID. Note: this is not the *label*/*name* of the KV Namespace, but the Cloudflare-generated ID assigned to it; you can find it under "Workers > KV" |
| NUXT_STORAGE_DRIVER | This must be set to `cloudflare` for this kind of deployment |
| NUXT_PUBLIC_DEFAULT_SERVER | This is the address of the Mastodon instance that will show up when a user visits your Elk deployment and is not logged in. If you don't make that variable, it will point to `m.webtoo.ls` by default. |
| NUXT_PUBLIC_SINGLE_INSTANCE | If enabled it will disable signing in to servers other than the server specified in `NUXT_PUBLIC_DEFAULT_SERVER` |
| NUXT_PUBLIC_PRIVACY_POLICY_URL | This is the URL to a web page with information on your privacy policy. |

That's it! All that's left to do is...

## Deploy Elk!
On your project page open the Deploys tab, click on "Trigger deploy" and "Deploy site". In a few minutes Elk should be up and running!

## Use a custom domain
If you want to use a custom domain, go to "Domain settings" on your Netlify project page, and press "Add custom domain". If your domain is not bought from Netlify, it will ask you to add a CNAME record. Do that.

Once the custom domain is added, you'll need to add an SSL/TLS certificate. At the bottom of the page press "Verify DNS configuration" and if it succeeds, press "Provision certificate". If that fails, you may need to wait some time until your DNS propagetes.

And that's it! Enjoy your instance's Elk!
